Update the GraphQL Tool Guide with Ballerina GraphQL service generation (#6959)
ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website: swan-lake/learn-the-platform/ballerina-tooling/graphql-tool.md

---
layout: ballerina-graphql-support-left-nav-pages-swanlake
title: GraphQL tool

> description: Check out how the Ballerina GraphQL tool makes it easy to generate a client in Ballerina using a given GraphQL config file, generate a GraphQL schema using a given Ballerina GraphQL service, and generate a service in Ballerina using a given GraphQL schema file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Check out how the Ballerina GraphQL tool makes it easy to generate a client in Ballerina using a given GraphQL config file, generate a GraphQL schema using a given Ballerina GraphQL service, and generate a Ballerina service using a given GraphQL schema file.
```

keywords: ballerina, programming language, graphql, sdl, schema definition language
permalink: /learn/graphql-tool/
active: graphql-tool

> intro: The Ballerina GraphQL tool makes it easy to start the development of a GraphQL client. It generates the client skeletons in Ballerina for a given GraphQL schema and a GraphQL document. In addition, the GraphQL tool supports generating the GraphQL schema for a given Ballerina GraphQL service and writing it to a file in GraphQL schema definition language (SDL). Also the GraphQL tool makes it easy to start the development of a GraphQL service. It generates the service skeletons in Ballerina for a given GraphQL schema.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
intro: The Ballerina GraphQL tool makes it easy to start the development of a GraphQL. It generates the client skeletons in Ballerina for a given GraphQL schema and a GraphQL document. In addition, the GraphQL tool supports generating the GraphQL schema for a given Ballerina GraphQL service and writing it to a file in GraphQL schema definition language (SDL). The GraphQL tool generates the Ballerina service skeletons for a given GraphQL schema.
```

The `service` parameter specifies the base path of the Ballerina GraphQL service of which the schema needs to be generated. This generates the GraphQL schema for the Ballerina GraphQL service in the `service.bal` file of which the `service-base-path` is `/starwars`.

>**Info:** For more information on the command, see [Ballerina to GraphQL](/learn/cli-documentation/graphql/#ballerina-to-graphql).

## Service generation

> The GraphQL tool supports generating a Ballerina GraphQL service from a given GraphQL schema. Successfull execution will generate two files. One contains the service, and other contains the types needed. You can export the generated files into a given location. The tool can be used in the following ways to generate a Ballerina GraphQL service.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The GraphQL tool supports generating a Ballerina GraphQL service from a given GraphQL schema. Successful execution will generate two files. One contains the service and the other contains the types needed. You can export the generated files to a given location. The tool can be used in the following ways to generate a Ballerina GraphQL service.
```

> ### Generate a service with GraphQL object types represented in service class types 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Generate a service with the GraphQL object types represented in the service class types 
```

> If you want to generate service class types for GraphQL object types in the GraphQL schema, use the following command to generate the service.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Execute the command below to generate the service class types for the GraphQL object types in the GraphQL schema.
```

```

> $ bal graphql [-i | --input] <ballerina-service-file-path> [-m | --mode] <operation-mode> [-o | --output <output-location>] 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ bal graphql [-i | --input] <graphql-schema-file-path> [-m | --mode] <operation-mode> [-o | --output <output-location>] 
```

```

> For example,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, see the command below.
```

```
$ bal graphql -i schema.graphql -m service -o ./service
```

> Output flag is optional. If it is omitted, the generated files will be written to the current directory. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The output flag is optional. If it is omitted, the generated files will be written to the current directory. 
```
Shall we add this an info section?

> >**Info:** For more information on the command, see [Ballerina to GraphQL](/learn/cli-documentation/graphql/#ballerina-to-graphql).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
>**Info:** For more information on the command, see [Ballerina to GraphQL](/learn/cli-documentation/graphql/#ballerina-to-graphql).
```
We can add the above sentence also to this info section.

> ### Generate a service with GraphQL object types represented in record types

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Generate a service with the GraphQL object types represented in the record types
```

> If you want to generate record types for GraphQL object types in the GraphQL schema, use the following command to generate the service. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Execute the command below to generate record types for GraphQL object types in the GraphQL schema. 
```

```

> $ bal graphql [-i | --input] <ballerina-service-file-path> [-m | --mode] <operation-mode> [-o | --output <output-location>] [-r | --use-records-for-objects]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ bal graphql [-i | --input] <graphql-schema-file-path> [-m | --mode] <operation-mode> [-o | --output <output-location>] [-r | --use-records-for-objects]
```

```

> For example, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, see the command below.
```

   
```
$ bal graphql -i schema.graphql -m service -o ./service -r
```

> Some GraphQL object types can't be represented with record types. Those are identified as below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Even if the `[-r | --use-records-for-objects]` flag is used, the following object types will be generated using service types because these types cannot be represented by Ballerina record types.
```

> Even if the `[-r | --use-records-for-objects]` flag is used, the following object types will be generated using service types because these types cannot be represented by Ballerina record types.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Even if the `[-r | --use-records-for-objects]` flag is used, the following object types will be generated using the service types because these types cannot be represented by Ballerina record types.
```
